---
layout:      post
title:       Puppeteer 101
category:    Web Tools
description: How to Install Puppeteer on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.
---

## Introduction ##

Puppeteer is one kind of browser testing frameworks. It support headless browser testing.  
A headless browser is a great tool for automated testing and server environments where you don't need a visible UI shell. You can run some tests on a web page and get snapshot pictures of web page behaviour on a Linux server.

## Prerequisites ##

- An Ubuntu 18.04 LTS x64 server instance.
- A new `non-root` user account with `sudo` access and switch to it.  
  Create user: `adduser username`  
  Add access: `adduser username sudo`
- Update your system.  
  `apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`

## Installation ##

- **Step 1:** Download and Unzip Node.js  
  We download the Node.js from the [official site](https://nodejs.org/en/download/). The Latest LTS Version: 8.11.2 (includes npm 5.6.0). We get the 64-bit Linux Binaries here.  
  `wget https://nodejs.org/dist/v8.11.2/node-v8.11.2-linux-x64.tar.xz`  
  Unzip the package.  
  `tar xvJf node-v8.11.2-linux-x86.tar.xz`  
  Then we will get a folder named `node-v8.11.2-linux-x64`.

- **Step 2:** Environment Variable Setting  
  Add the node.js `bin` folder to `PATH`.  
  `export PATH=/path/to/nodejs/node-v8.11.2-linux-x64/bin:$PATH`  
  Then check the `node` and `npm` version.  
  `node -v`  
  `npm -v`

- **Step 3:** Install Puppeteer via `npm`  
  `npm i puppeteer`  
  The result will look like this:  
  `+ puppeteer@1.4.0`  
  `updated 1 package in 2.371s`

- **Step 4:** Install Chromium Browser  
  `sudo apt install chromium-browser`

## Usage Examples ##

Here is an example about login the github web page.

    /**
    * @name Github
    *
    * @desc Logs into Github. Provide your username and password as environment variables when running the script, i.e:
    * `GITHUB_USER=myuser GITHUB_PWD=mypassword node github.js`
    *
    */
    const puppeteer = require('puppeteer')
    const screenshot = 'github.png';
    (async () => {
        const browser = await puppeteer.launch()
        const page = await browser.newPage()
        await page.goto('https://github.com/login')
        await page.type('#login_field', process.env.GITHUB_USER)
        await page.type('#password', process.env.GITHUB_PWD)
        await page.click('[name="commit"]')
        await page.waitForNavigation()
        await page.screenshot({ path: screenshot })
        browser.close()
        console.log('See screenshot: ' + screenshot)
    })()

Then execute the test via command:  
`GITHUB_USER=myuser GITHUB_PWD=mypassword node github.js`  
After that, we will get a picture named `github.png` in the working directory.

## FAQ ##

- **Q**: Why we need a new `non-root` user account with `sudo` access?  
  **A**: Running as root without `--no-sandbox` is not supported. But it is not recommended to turn off the `sandbox` because of  security issues. So we do not use the `root` account to run puppeteer test.

- **Q**: Can we use the Chrome browser?  
  **A**: Yes, the default browser of puppeteer is the open source Chromium, we can change to Chrome via modify code:  
  `const browser = await puppeteer.launch({executablePath: '/path/to/Chrome'})`

- **Q**: Puppeteer will download a Chromium to the current directory by default, why we need `apt install chromium-browser`?  
  **A**: The Chromium downloaded by puppeteer did not install the full package dependencies, so we need `apt install chromium-browser` to resolve all the dependencies.